---
layout: post
title:  "Gulp, that's a tough one to swallow"
date:   2017-10-22
---

So while embarking on my CSS-images project, I was motivated to use a templating engine as some parts of the HTML would be repetitive and I came across [this article](https://zellwk.com/blog/nunjucks-with-gulp/) and so started understanding and exploring gulp. 

### [Setting up](https://gulpjs.com/) 
```
node -v
npm -v
npm install gulp-cli -g
npm install gulp -D
touch gulpfile.js

```

### What exactly is gulp? 
> gulp is a toolkit for automating painful or time-consuming tasks in your development workflow, so you can stop messing around and build something

Gulp was easy to set up and surprisingly easy to understand, it wasn't at all abstract because there were so many use cases. 

Some of the tasks I've customized:
1. sass requires:  
- `gulp-sass`: compiles scss to css
- `gulp-autoprefixer`: adds prefixers like -webkit etc
- `gulp-clean-css`: minifies css to optimize page loading times
2. nunjucks requires:
- `gulp-nunjucks-render`: template engine, nunjucks, compile templates into html
- `gulp-data`: to allow use of json file in html
- `gulp-htmlmin`: minifies html into one line
3. new file creation requires
- `fs`: to 
4. browser sync requires:
- `browser-sync`: to reload browser upon saving
5. crop requires
- `gulp-image-resize`: to crop images using imagick
6. watch: to watch files for changes that prompt browser sync to do its job 
7. Lastly, set a combination of tasks under default, so that in your command prompt, just run `gulp` and WATCH THE MAGIC HAPPEN. Its quite exciting. 

### Why Gulp
I find this very helpful because: 
1. Nunjucks is a great template engine, heavily inspired by jinja2. Using gulp as a tool to automate the rendering of html is fast, easy and nosweat
2. Gulp is able to pipe the finalised css/html files into a customized destination which I've placed as `/docs` because that's where I'm building my github page from. 

Thing with github is that it serves only static assets (html, js, css). I recently explored express.js which is a web application framework for nodejs and I like how it was able to do routing and incorporate nunjucks BUT I just couldn't find a way to compile the templates into html without the use of Gulp's piping. Hence. What was my point. 

Yes GULP. Its great, I can't go without it now. *large gulp in terror*
I'VE FALLEN INTO THEIR TRAP.